###A Survey of Existing Open-Source Projects

This paper evaluates the community interest, documentation, and code base of three open-source projects: PsychoPy, Firepad, and OpenOffice.

####PsychoPy
PsychoPy is “an open-source application to allow the presentation of stimuli and collection of data for a wide range of neuroscience, psychology and psychophysics experiments” (psychopy.org). It is a free alternative to other psychology experimental software such as e-Prime and Presentation. The code for PsychoPy is platform-independent, using easily accessible Python and C libraries to facilitate implementation of psychology experiments. The software itself provides both a “coder” and a “builder” interface. The coder interface provides an implementation for experimenters who are comfortable programming, and can therefore build experiments by writing code. The builder interface, on the other hand, is for those with not as much experience programming; it offers a graphical user interface that provides intuitive implementation of functionality.

PsychoPy’s software has a very active community base, with a high level of both developer and user activity. There are regular commits to the project’s Github repository, at least one every few days, totalling to 4,256 commits since the repository was created. There are over forty contributors who have helped develop fifty-six releases of the software since September, 2010. PsychoPy developers also have an active developer forum hosted on Google Groups; contributors post possible bugs, discuss coding style, and talk of possible extensions to the program’s functionality. The users’ end of the spectrum is no less involved. The PsychoPy users’ forum generates daily posts, ranging from discussions on how to use the code for different experiments to common issues encountered by the user community. 

PsychoPy’s webpage provides extensive documentation to allow users and developers a jumpstart into their projects. The guide on psychopy.org provides documentation on installation of the software, setting up and beginning use of both the “coder” and “builder” interfaces of the programs, and common issues users may face. It is complete with screenshots, tutorials, and demos of simple experiments. A reference manual also contains a complete list of all classes and methods available in any specific release of the software; this is useful to both developers (who may want to know existing functionalities) and users who utilize the “coder” interface of the software. An additional developers section discusses acceptable courtesy of using the Github repository to share improvements. It also documents stylistic conventions for writing code for code; however, this section can be further improved to provide more extensive guidelines, especially since its current advice is rather vague: the guide states, “in terms of style, try to make your code blend in with and look like the existing code.” 

####Firepad
