###A Survey of Existing Open-Source Projects

This paper evaluates the community interest, documentation, and code base of three open-source projects: PsychoPy, jEdit, and OpenOffice.

####PsychoPy

PsychoPy is “an open-source application to allow the presentation of stimuli and collection of data for a wide range of neuroscience, psychology and psychophysics experiments” (psychopy.org). The code for PsychoPy is platform-independent, using easily accessible Python and C libraries to facilitate implementation of psychology experiments. The software itself provides a “coder” interface for experienced programmers to code their own experiments, as well as a “builder” interface that provides an intuitive graphical user interface for less experienced coders. 

PsychoPy’s software has a very active community base, with a high level of both developer and user activity. There are regular commits to the project’s Github repository (at least one every few days) totaling to 4,256 commits since the repository was created. There are over forty contributors who have helped develop fifty-six releases of the software since September, 2010. PsychoPy developers also have an active developer forum hosted on Google Groups; contributors post possible bugs, discuss coding style, and talk of possible extensions to the program’s functionality. The users’ end of the spectrum is no less involved; the PsychoPy users’ forum generates daily posts, ranging from discussions on how to use the code for different experiments to common issues encountered by the user community. 

PsychoPy’s webpage provides extensive documentation to allow users and developers a jumpstart into their projects. The guide on psychopy.org provides documentation on installation of the software, setting up and beginning use of both the “coder” and “builder” interfaces of the programs, and common issues users may face. It is complete with screenshots, tutorials, and demos of simple experiments. A reference manual also contains a complete list of all classes and methods available in any specific release of the software; this is useful to both developers (who may want to know existing functionalities) and users who utilize the “coder” interface of the software. An additional developers section discusses acceptable courtesy of using the Github repository to share improvements. It also documents stylistic conventions for writing code for code; however, this section can be further improved to provide more extensive guidelines, especially since its current advice is rather vague: the guide states, “in terms of style, try to make your code blend in with and look like the existing code.” 

Despite the inadequate coding guidelines, PsychoPy’s existing code is very reader-friendly. Though the coding style is not perfectly consistent, it is easily understandable and includes ample comments that explain each class and method; according to PsychoPy’s webpage, there is a 28% comments-to-code ratio. In-line comments outline areas of code that require further development or have been identified as buggy. These points of weakness are also further documented under “General Issues” in the project’s documentation, and are often discussed in the developers’ forum.

Because PsychoPy is a small library of experimental tools, it is always possible to add additional “builder” components as well as “coder” demos. Issues and recommendations brought up by the user community are a wonderful place to start for developers looking to contribute to the project.

####jEdit

jEdit is a programming text editor. It is written in Java, and runs on Mac OS X Unix, VMS, and Windows.

jEdit is supported by an adequately active community of users and developers. Updates to the git repository occur on a regular basis, but because there are only six active developers contributing to the repository, commits are much more infrequent than on larger open source projects. The developer activity is by no means dormant, however. Commits occur at least on a biweekly basis. New plugins are constantly being developed, and new editor capabilities are also being worked on. User activity is proof that jEdit is a useful tool; over 6,000 users download the application on a weekly basis. 

jEdit's site contains excellent documentation. The "User's Guide" provides in-depth explanations of all features jEdit provides, beginning from basic core functionalities, to  customizing the software for personal use and writing plugins. The jEdit user community offers great praise for the clarity of the project's documentation. The documentation's guides also provide useful information for developers. There is extensive documentation on proper coding conventions, repository use, submitting updates, and contributing code. The project's site also hosts trackers for feature requests, plugin request, patch requests, and bug discoveries. Each of these trackers document over a hundred requests, many of which are recently proposed.

The source code of the project is extremely lucid. With extensive in-line comments and method explanations, this project is one of the easier complete application codes a beginner can understand. Because the jEdit API provides an easily navigable documentation of the application's methods, familiarizing oneself with the project's code is not a difficult task. The coding style itself is very consistent between different areas of the code, making a new developer's job easy.

There are numerous ways of contributing to the jEdit project. Firstly, the project is in great need of website development, as the community site is over ten years old. The project is currently in search for Drupal developers to update the main project site to make the information more up-to-date as well as make the webpage more aesthetically pleasing (in hopes of attracting more user activity). Additionally, the project is in constant need of programmers. As previously mentioned, there are very few active developers working on the software. As noted on the project's "Help Wanted" page, hundreds of requests are in need of development, ranging from beginner's coding projects to more complex features. Most of these requests are yet "unassigned" to specific developers. 


####OpenOffice

Apache OpenOffice is a large, well-developed project that features numerous productivity applications including a word-processor, spreadsheet, presentation graphics, drawing, equation editor, and database. It is often used as a basic alternative to iWorks or Microsoft Office. 

Because it is such a widely-used software, OpenOffice unsurprisingly has an enormous community of users and developers. In fact, there have been over 100 million downloads of the software since it was first released. There are also over four-hundred developers with commit access on the OpenOffice Subversion repository. In addition, the OpenOffice project hosts more than ten public mailing lists, including discussion forums for development, documentation, quality assurance, commits, issues, among many other project-related topics. 

Also unsurprisingly, OpenOffice’s site contains extremely extensive documentation for users and developers, much like the user guides of other commercial products. The “Documentation Area” of the site contains user FAQ’s, How-To’s, installation information, tutorials, and other information. For developers, the site uses Apache’s Bugzilla to document and track bugs; the documentation page has an issue tracker and lookup for developers interested in improving the software. The site also lists books that may be helpful in using OpenOffice for specialized purposes. 

The code for OpenOffice’s applications is relatively complex. However, it contains well-developed comments to enable developers to learn about and contribute to a specific portion of the code. The project has a page specifically dedicated to the numerous ways potential developers can get involved and contribute their expertise. The project constantly needs individuals to write and update documentation, help support new users, test programs and report bugs, fix bugs, code new features, design marketing materials, translate the software into different languages, and maintain the website. Though it may seem as though it would require considerable expertise to contribute to such an expansive project, the project’s site makes it easy for beginners to make contributions as well. “New Volunteer Orientation Modules” are designed for new developers to familiarize themselves with topics related to OpenOffice and its methods of development. A “Help Wanted” page outlines areas in which the project needs help, ranging from very basic tasks, to more complicated bug fixes and tool updates. The site even has a page for student contributors who may be looking for very basic coding tasks, and who may need additional help getting started. 
